# Engineering Leadership Excellence Podcast
What does it take to be a great leader? We asked some of the most influential names in software engineering and product management. You’ll learn ways to grow as a software engineering leader, optimize your time, develop your team, structure your organization, and get the right products to market, faster. In each episode, Joshua Samberg and Robin Pokorný uncover the empowering insights and daily habits of industry leaders who think, speak, and act in ways that make a positive difference in their lives and in the lives of others.
Show More
## Engineering Leadership Excellence Podcast
# What staff+ engineers need to be successful in the ML field (with Žilvinas Girėnas)
October 21, 2024 • Productboard • Season 2 • Episode 6
Share
## Share episode
Copy
Start at
Use Left/Right to seek, Home/End to jump to start or end. Hold shift to jump forward or backward.
0:00  | 39:46 
Show Notes Chapters
In this episode, Robin interviews[ Žilvinas Girėnas](https://www.linkedin.com/in/girenas/), a Senior Engineering Manager at Productboard. They dive into Žilvinas’ experience leading a machine learning team focused on building Productboard AI. The discussion covers the team’s unique approach to working with AI, the challenges and strategies in hiring ML engineers, and their transition to building an internal AI platform. Žilvinas also shares insights on shaping the team’s delivery process with the Shape Up methodology, how ML engineers need both technical and product knowledge, and the importance of balancing leadership and engineering skills in their roles.
_Interested in joining our growing team at Productboard? Well, we’re hiring across the board! Check out our_[ _careers page_](https://go.productboard.com/ELP-careers) _for the latest vacancies. We’d love to hear from you!_