# Podcast: How to Structure a Growing AI Company with Lightricks Co-Founder & CTO [Yaron Inger](https://www.it-labs.com/yaron-inger/)
A Founder’s Guideline
On this episode of _CTO Confessions_ , our host, TC Gill, is joined by Yaron Inger, Founder of Lightricks, who reveals the unfiltered story behind scaling an AI-driven company. Yaron shares the lessons learned during their growth, emphasizing the importance of managing cashflow, deciding to change their business model and navigating all major growth challenges while staying humane and making difficult decisions.
[START LISTENING](https://www.it-labs.com/podcast-how-to-structure-a-growing-ai-company-with-lightricks-co-founder-cto-yaron-inger/#podcast)
### “I think that if you look at any big company that is operating for a long time, you will see that you have years where the business is stalling a bit, and then you need to figure out how to solve the problem they have. And once it actually takes on, then you continue growing”
#### -Yaron Inger, Co-Founder & CTO at Lightricks –
## Key Takeaways:
  * **Scaling Culture Requires Structure:** In smaller teams, preserving culture is easier. However, as the team size doubles, maintaining that culture requires a proper structure, including all necessary elements such as departments and operations, which need to be carefully planned and implemented.
  * **The Importance of an Outside Mirror:** Talking to external advisors is much needed and can be like holding up a mirror – they help you see your leadership style and the bigger picture in ways you might not notice on your own.
  * **The Approach to Timely Feedback, Navigating Difficult Conversations and Letting People Go:** Spoiler alert – all of them are hard to master! This is an integral part of being a tech leader in a growing company.


## TLDR: Straight to the point
(Quick Links)
Introducing the guest Tamás Petrovics 
The journey to becoming a tech leader 
What is the problem that XUND is solving? 
How Tamás roles as a leader 
As a leader, what keeps Tamás up at night? 
How to create the best performing teams 
Engineering challenges 
Book recommendations by Tamás 
Tamás’ wish to the tech genie 
Tamás’ key takeaways for aspiring tech leaders 
TC’s key takeaways from the podcast 
I absolutely loved my conversation with Yaron. I truly admire his ability to navigate the rapidly evolving field of AI, balancing both market demands and user needs while also being there for the people at Lightricks. Going from a small team to over 500 employees is a massive cultural shift and Yaron shared some key insights that I think are crucial for every leader to hear. One piece of advice that really stuck with me was his emphasis on the importance of having an outside mirror when a company is scaling. Talking to external advisors is not just a luxury; it’s necessary. Seeking out these perspectives can provide the clarity and growth needed to navigate the complexities of leadership.
We also discussed some of the more difficult aspects of leadership: providing timely feedback, navigating tough conversations and making the hard decision to let people go when necessary. While these are not easy tasks, they are essential parts of a leader’s skillset.
As Yaron wisely said, ‘Embrace change, and don’t be afraid to make hard conversations.’ These principles left me reflecting on how they can be applied in my own work and for any leader out there. If you haven’t listened yet, I highly recommend it – there are lessons here for all of us.
##### TC Gill, CTO Confessions Host
##### Transform your technology organization with IT Labs teams.
Reach out to us.
### The new
### Sweet Bacon
### Burger
Sweet Bacon: Beef patty, pepper jack cheese, jalapeños, grilled onions, chipotle mayo.
## Purchase today and enjoy a 15% discount!
###### NEW USER
###### Enter the code “NEW USER” at Checkout
###### Unlock the deal
## 10$ OFF
###### Sign up for our newsletter for access to special prices and offers.
### Reach out to us